[WebExtensions] Deprecate runtime.PlatformInfo.nacl_arch (#43799)
mdn/content: files/en-us/mozilla/add-ons/webextensions/api/runtime/platformnaclarch/index.md

sidebar: addonsidebar
---

> {{Deprecated_Header}}

Reviewer: Apologies, I overlooked that we don't use this macro; rather we add a note
```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
> **This type is deprecated** in favor of {{WebExtAPIRef("runtime.PlatformArch")}}. `PlatformArch` is also available in {{WebExtAPIRef("runtime.PlatformInfo")}}, which you obtain using {{WebExtAPIRef("runtime.getPlatformInfo()")}}.
```

> {{Deprecated_Header}}{{non-standard_header}}

Reviewer: Generally, we've not used the non-standard header as there's no specification for web extension APIs.
```suggestion
{{Deprecated_Header}}
```

> The enumerated value representing CPU instruction set architecture of Google Native Client used by the browser. This enum is deprecated, following removal of Google Native Client from Google Chrome. As of 2026, Chromium intends to remove this enum. Consider migrating to `PlatformArch` also available in {{WebExtAPIRef("runtime.PlatformInfo")}} via {{WebExtAPIRef("runtime.getPlatformInfo()")}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The enumerated value representing the CPU instruction set architecture of Google Native Client used by the browser. This enum is deprecated, following the removal of Google Native Client from Google Chrome. As of 2026, Chromium intends to remove this enum. Consider migrating to {{WebExtAPIRef("runtime.PlatformArch")}} in {{WebExtAPIRef("runtime.PlatformInfo")}} which you obtain using {{WebExtAPIRef("runtime.getPlatformInfo()")}}.
```

Author: Both `PlatformArch` and `PlatformNaclArch` are available via the same API `runtime.getPlatformInfo()`, but the edit appears to suggest otherwise:
> Consider migrating to {{WebExtAPIRef("runtime.PlatformArch")}} in {{WebExtAPIRef("runtime.PlatformInfo")}} which you obtain using {{WebExtAPIRef("runtime.getPlatformInfo()")}}.

> The enumerated value representing the CPU instruction set architecture of Google Native Client used by the browser. This enum is deprecated, following the removal of Google Native Client from Google Chrome. As of 2026, Chromium intends to remove this enum. Consider migrating to {{WebExtAPIRef("runtime.PlatformArch")}} in {{WebExtAPIRef("runtime.PlatformInfo")}} which you obtain using {{WebExtAPIRef("runtime.getPlatformInfo()")}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The enumerated value representing the CPU instruction set architecture of Google Native Client used by the browser. This enum is deprecated, following the removal of Google Native Client from Google Chrome. As of 2026, Chromium intends to remove this enum.
```

## Possible values

- `ARM`
  - : The string literal `"arm"`. Represents all versions of ARM ISA, including all 32-bit and 64-bit variants. Equivalent to `PlatformArch.ARM` (32-bit variant) and `PlatformArch.ARM64` combined into one value.
- `X86_32`
  - : The string literal `"x86-32"`. Represents 32-bit variant of the x86 arhitecture. Equivalent to `PlatformArch.X86_32`.
- `X86_64`
  - : The string literal `"x86-64"`. Represents 64-bit-compatiable variant of the x86 arhitecture. Equivalent to `PlatformArch.X86_64`.
- `MIPS`
  - : The string literal `"mips"`. Represents 32-bit variant of MIPS ISA, which was never officially supported by official releases. Equivalent to `PlatformArch.MIPS`.
- `MIPS64`

>   - : The string literal `"mips64"`. Represents 64-bit variant of MIPS ISA, which was never officially supported by official releases. Equivalent to `PlatformArch.MIPS64`.

Reviewer: The Chrome documentation includes values not included in the MDN documanation (e.g., `arm64`,  `mips` can we update that here and add to the BCD update? Also, all values are stated as lowercase in the documentation.
```suggestion
- `ARM`
  - : The string literal `"arm"`. Represents all versions of the ARM ISA, including all 32-bit and 64-bit variants. Equivalent to [`PlatformArch.arm`](/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/API/runtime/PlatformArch#arm) (32-bit variant) and `PlatformArch.arm64` combined into one value.
- `X86_32`
  - : The string literal `"x86-32"`. Represents the 32-bit variant of the x86 architecture. Equivalent to [`PlatformArch.x86_32`](/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/API/runtime/PlatformArch#x86-32) .
- `X86_64`
  - : The string literal `"x86-64"`. Represents the 64-bit variant of the x86 architecture. Equivalent to [`PlatformArch.x86_64`](/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/API/runtime/PlatformArch#x86-64).
- `MIPS`
  - : The string literal `"mips"`. Represents the 32-bit variant of the MIPS ISA, which was never supported by official releases. Equivalent to `PlatformArch.mips`.
- `MIPS64`
  - : The string literal `"mips64"`. Represents the 64-bit variant of the MIPS ISA, which was never supported by official releases. Equivalent to `PlatformArch.mips64`.
```

Author: Copied your version and just removed extra space at the end of description for x86-64.

Author: > The Chrome documentation includes values not included in the MDN documanation

Chromium specifies that `chrome.runtime.PlatformNaclArch` has value `{ARM: 'arm', MIPS: 'mips', MIPS64: 'mips64', X86_32: 'x86-32', X86_64: 'x86-64'}`, we already updated this document accordingly. Or did you mean that we should also update document about `chrome.runtime.PlatformArch`?

Reviewer: @bershanskiy, sorry for not being clear about the missing documentation. I was referring to the MDN page (https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/API/runtime/PlatformArch). So you make the comment "Equivalent to `PlatformArch.mips`." but the corresponding page on MDN doesn't document mips.

Author: This is an interesting point. We can trivially document Chromium behavior for `runtime.PlatformNaclArch` because the other two engines (Firefox, WebKit) omit it. This is not the case with `runtime.PlatformArch`. Unfortunately, all three main engines disagree on both keys and values in `runtime.PlatformArch`.

Here are outputs of `JSON.stringify(chrome.runtime.PlatformArch, null, 2)` on different browsers:

Google Chrome (matches the [source](https://github.com/chromium/chromium/blob/main/chrome/browser/resources/chromeos/accessibility/definitions/runtime.d.ts#L58))
```JSON
{
  "ARM": "arm",
  "ARM64": "arm64",
  "MIPS": "mips",
  "MIPS64": "mips64",
  "RISCV64": "riscv64",
  "X86_32": "x86-32",
  "X86_64": "x86-64"
}
```

Firefox ([source](https://github.com/mozilla-firefox/firefox/blob/main/toolkit/components/extensions/schemas/runtime.json#L191) specifies only values and keys are auto-generated):
```JSON
{
  "AARCH64": "aarch64",
  "ARM": "arm",
  "PPC64": "ppc64",
  "RISCV64": "riscv64",
  "S390X": "s390x",
  "SPARC64": "sparc64",
  "X86-32": "x86-32",
  "X86-64": "x86-64",
  "NOARCH": "noarch"
}
```

At the moment, I don't have access to my Safari machine, but I remember it being different from both Chrome and Firefox in some yet another way.

Reviewer: @bershanskiy, still investigating but have opened a couple of draft PR:

- [Add missing PlatformArch values](https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/43847#top) #43847
- [PlatformArch values support details](https://github.com/mdn/browser-compat-data/pull/29512#top) #29512

Please feel free to comment if necessary.
